Welcome back to exercise seven.
Hopefully you had a good
time working through this.
And we are going to just add a spinner.
So, in the app layout route, this is the
route responsible for rendering of this.
It's basically the route for
the logged in portion of the app.
So, if we look at the actual route,
this route is responsible for the HTML,
the head, the body, everything that's
like common whether you're logged in or
logged out.
And then our Dunder app.
That's what you call double underscore,
I am told, our Dunder app components here,
the app route is responsible for
all the logged in user stuff.
That's why our login screen looks
completely different from the rest of who
logged in the app where we can have
the fake books on the left and all that.
So that's why we're here because we're
gonna be adding a spinner to the fake
books logo right next to that.
And we have a spinner implemented for
you in this component right there.
And so, if we come up and
render that spinner,
and we say visible, true.
And we'll come over here and right, we're
on a slow page, we'll deal with that.
But there is our spinner,
nice and spinny but
we need to determine when should this
spinner show up and when should it not.
So we're going to hook into with a hook,
remix state for
the transitions as they happen.
So we're gonna get our
transition is use transition and
again this is coming from the remix,
run, react, not from react.
We shipped first, we're gonna change
it because React is bigger than we are.
And also our name makes more sense to
call it a navigation, so that's probably
we will probably change it and
it will probably be changed to transition.
So now we need to determine what or we're
gonna use the transition to determine
whether we should be showing the spinner.
So we can determine if we
are in a loading state.
So we're transitioning, so we'll say,
show a spinner is based on
transition.state is not equal to idle.
So if it's anything else and
we are transitioning,
there's a transition going on.
We're submitting a form
that is a transition or
at least a form that is a transition
in fetchers or not that doesn't apply.
But for forms that like redirect like or
create new custom form for example, or
we're navigating over to the customers,
navigating between customers all of that
will have a transition state of either,
of one of the other two options here
which TypeScript will Tossers loading or
submitting.
So, when we're submitting the form,
and then loading is when we view
revalidating or just transitioning between
pages, we just get a loading state there.
So if we're anything but idle, then we
know we're in a transitioning state.
And so we should show the spinner,
and that will do it for us.
So if I go between customers, then we're
gonna get our spinner right there and
and go to another customer boom
there is our spinner looks nice.
If I go between invoices now,
that transition happens so
quickly that we do not see the spinner and
the reason for that,
if we come down to our spinner is,
we have it animating from zero to 100.
We transition that over some time, so
it's not transitioning fast enough for
us to be able to see it.
But it could let's say that the request
takes like just the right amount of
time to to display before the transition
finishes, and so the spinner will show up
and then it will disappear really quickly
that will get a flash reloading state.
It's not terrible, but
it's not the best either.
And this is a very common problem.
This has nothing to do with remix,
it's just flush with loading state,
like you thought that you were gonna
need to show a loading spinner and
then the request is faster than
you expect it, so it goes away.
Flash reloading stays really
common problem on the web.
And what I used to do back
in my AngularJS days is,
I would actually to solve this problem.
I made it so that every request took at
least 300 milliseconds, every one of them.
So, any requests that led
to a loading state, so
that I would never show
a flashing of loading state.
For my use case, I could argue that
that was actually a better solution
than the flash, but for what application
I was building, but still not awesome.
Like, what if the request
only took 50 milliseconds,
then I just slowed the user
down by 250 milliseconds.
That's kind of silly.
So, what's better is if there was
some mechanism for us to say,
if the request takes 200 milliseconds,
then we don't need to show a loading
spinner but
if it takes more than 200 milliseconds.
Let's show a loading spinner.
And if we show the loading spinner,
let's keep it showing for
at least another 300 milliseconds, okay?
And even if we've already finished
the transition and everything,
that's at least like keep
that that spinner showing up.
So that is the idea.
If you need a loading spinner,
then show up for at least long
enough that it's not a flash.
And that's what the spin-delay is for.
And fun fact, this was actually built by
somebody that I contracted to help me
implement designs on my website
his name's Stefan Mayer, and
he built this module for my website.
And so you can actually see it on if you
can make a slower request on my website.
Like if we go to the chats page,
then boom, there it is, and
that was the show spin module in action,
or the spindling..
So we're going to use SpinDelay.
And I don't know why it imports it as
a default, because I don't think it works.
You have to do the namespace import.
That's kind of weird, but
yeah, so import it that way.
And then we have some
configuration options.
So, first we provide the show spinner.
The Boolean that we want to have, all that
it actually does is it has those semantics
I described and
you just provided a Boolean and
it gives you a Boolean that only
changes within those semantics.
So, we're actually gonna take this,
and assign our showSpinner to that.
We're gonna provide that as our Boolean,
and then the configuration options,
like you can set the min or
there it is, the min duration and the,
what's the other option?
The delay.
The defaults are actually pretty good,
so, I'm gonna just stick
with the defaults for this.
So now we come back here, and I didn't
like set that up in a way that you could
see that demonstrated, but you'll see
that like the experience it's still as
good the user clicks on something.
They see the spinner show up,
it's a much better experience than
like not seeing anything at all.
And still our prefetching still works,
so if I wait here for a second and
then I click boom it's instant and
everything works nicely, so we've just
improved the experience slightly by
giving our users something to say, okay.
Like app is responding, even if
they're on a slow network connection.
Okay, and this is how you do that.
You can put this use transition anywhere.
You could have like the little loading
bar at the top that some apps will do,
like GitHub does that where it's
like lying to you, it says like
here's the progress and then it gets like
to the end and then it just never moves.
And you're like, I knew you were lying,
you don't know anything.
With Server Sent Events,
though, you could,
you could send them like here's
the progress on that thing, it's amazing.
It's cool stuff, we can do.
>> This only for
like navigation changes or
when you mutate things would
that transition be updated.
>> Yes, yeah so you will get a transition
anytime you're using the Form component,
if you're using a fetcher
form that doesn't count,
cuz there's no transition there However,
you can get the the pending
state with a fetcher.
You just use the fetcher itself
rather than the use transition.
But yeah, for global transitions,
that's the only situation where it would
make sense to do a global thing anyway,
if you've just got fetchers
that are doing stuff.
You could still do a global thing
by using the use fetchers hook.
But typically you wouldn't do that,
that would all be like local to
where it's showing up anyway.
So yeah, as usual,
I'm long winded in my answers and
I used a lot of words to answer
your simple question, yes, [LAUGH].
>> What's the difference again,
between the dunderapp.TSX and
the Dunder app folder?
Yes [LAUGH].
So the Dunder app TSX is the parent route,
it's as far as the layout is concerned,
this is, all of the stuff that
wraps all of the components that
are inside of the Dunder app folder.
So and all of those components inside of
there all those routes will show up right
here in the outlet spot.
So that's why you see this
left hand app over here and
that always stays the same no
matter what page you're on,
because the left side is
the responsibility of the parent, and
all of these pages
are children of that parent.